*************************************
Part 1: Using the MDAKit cookiecutter
*************************************

*See our* `YouTube tutorial <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viCPUHkgSxg&t=38s>`_
*for a video demonstration of this section.*

The **MDAKits cookiecutter** (a `Cookiecutter tool`_) can be used to rapidly 
develop a FAIR-compliant MDAKit by generating placeholder code for 
documentation, testing and installation. 

More information on its usage is can be found in the 
`MDAKit cookiecutter documentation`_, but in short using the cookiecutter 
involved running a command line prompt and then responding to a series of 
subsequent prompts. Below, we demonstrate this process for creating an 
``rmsfkit`` project.

#. **Initial requirements**: to use the Cookiecutter, you will need a GitHub 
   account, and an environment with Python 3.10+ and the `Cookiecutter tool`_ 
   installed.

#. The following command and responses will create a template for an 
   ``rmsfkit`` project. Note that some prompts have been left blank, accepting
   the default response.

   .. code-block:: bash

	$ cookiecutter gh:MDAnalysis/cookiecutter-mdakit

	project_name (ProjectName): rmsfkit
	repo_name (rmsfkit): 
	package_name (rmsfkit): 
	description (A short description of the project.): A package to perform RMSF analysis on molecular dynamics data.
	github_username (Your personal GitHub username): myusername
	github_host_account (GitHub account for hosting rmsfkit (e.g. myusername or an organization account). Press Enter to use myusername): 
	author_name (Your name (or your organization/company/team)): Firstname Lastname
	author_email (Your email (or your organization/company/team)): myemail@email-provider.com
	Select dependency_source:
	1 - Prefer conda-forge over the default anaconda channel with pip fallback
	2 - Prefer default anaconda channel with pip fallback
	3 - Dependencies from pip only (no conda)
	Choose from [1/2/3] (1): 
	Select include_ReadTheDocs:
	1 - y
	2 - n
	Choose from [1/2] (1): 
	template_analysis_class (Class name to template (e.g. Rmsfkit ). Press Enter to skip including analysis templates):

   Details on these options can be found on the MDAKit cookiecutter 
   documentation `here <cookiecutter options>`_. For ``rmsfkit``, we
   have opted to *'include ReadTheDocs'* (so that we can use it to host our 
   documentation later), and *'not create a template Analysis class'* for our 
   code (since we will be copying the existing MDAnalysis RMSF code).

A new git repository named ``rmsfkit`` has been generated. Navigating into this
directory, we find a number of files and subdirectories. The `cookiecutter 
documentation <cookiecutter usage>`_ provides more information on these, but some 
to take note of now: 

- ``LICENSE`` -- a text file containing the license information (GLPv2+ by 
  default).
- ``AUTHORS.md`` -- a template text file for listing code authors as each new
  contribution is made. Auto-populated with your name as the initial project
  creator.
- ``README.md`` -- a text file containing the project description and other 
  useful information. This will be the landing page content rendered on GitHub.
- ``pyproject.toml`` -- a configuration file with information for packaging (and
  other tools).
- ``rmsfkit/`` -- folder containing template files for a python package. This is
  where the source code (and tests) will live.
- ``CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`` and ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` -- text files containing sample
  community guidelines and autogenerated instructions for reporting issues,
  contributing, etc (once the code is on GitHub). 
- ``docs/`` -- folder containing documentation templates and configuration files
  for building the documentation.

We'll address some further files as they become relevant.


Progress: MDAKit requirements
-----------------------------

#. *Uses MDAnalysis* 
#. **✓ Open source + OSI license** -- the default GPLv2 license falls under 
   OSI. If you wish to choose another license, you can replace the default 
   ``LICENSE`` file with another; see :ref:`licensing` for more information.
#. *Versioned + on a version-controlled repository* -- the cookiecutter has set
   up versioning with git; in a later step, we'll add it to GitHub to complete
   this requirement.
#. **✓ Designated authors and maintainers** -- in the autogenerated 
   ``AUTHORS.md`` file, assuming that the maintained and author are the same 
   person. Future authors will also be added here.
#. *(At least) minimal documentation* -- the autogenerated ``README.md`` does 
   contain the Kit description, which is a start. We will be adding more formal
   documentation in a later step. 
#. *(At least) minimal regression tests*
#. **✓ Installable as a standard package** -- the configuration file 
   ``pyproject.toml`` and the file structure set up in ``rmsfkit/`` will allow
   this. 
#. **✓ (Recommended) community information available** -- provided with
   ``CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`` and ``CONTRIBUTING.md``. Adjust these files to suit 
   your needs.
#. *(Recommended) on a package distribution platform*


.. _`Cookiecutter tool`: https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/

.. _`MDAKit cookiecutter documentation`:
   https://www.mdanalysis.org/cookiecutter-mdakit

.. _`cookiecutter options`:
   https://www.mdanalysis.org/cookiecutter-mdakit/getting_started.html#options.io/en/latest/options

.. _`cookiecutter usage`:
   https://www.mdanalysis.org/cookiecutter-mdakit/getting_started.html#basic-usage
